# Data Structure and Analysis

A command line application that can read a list of courses from a text file, store them in a vector, sort the classes alphanumerically, and print the sorted list to the console.


In the projects in this course, we learned about various data structures including vectors (dynamic array), hash tables, and binary search trees. In learning about data structures, we examined different aspects to consider when using data structures such as runtime complexity and memory complexity. One of the problems I have been working to solve throughout the course is determining the best data structure for a given situation. By considering what operations are the most frequently used in any given application in conjunction with consideration of the strengths of the various data structures (such as accessing elements via an index for an array/dynamic array). Keeping this goal in mind as well as trying to keep programs as simple or complex as they need to be allowed me to better choose an appropriate data structure for the projects in this course.

Taking breaks is my tried-and-true method for overcoming problems and roadblocks when studying or writing code. I often find that when I get stuck on something, by taking a break to do something else, I have an easier time seeing what the issue is and finding a way to resolve it and move forward. I also make sure that I take advantage of using any resources I have available to me. No matter if it's just looking up a function or syntax that I forgot or reviewing material from the textbook to make sure I understand a particular topic, it would be unwise to not take advantage of whatever resources you have when you're trying to solve a difficult problem or question.

I found the work for this course to be helpful by expanding my knowledge of various data structures, what they do, how they work, and when to use them. Before this course I did not really understand that there were many ways to store data. I also found that I have used many of the data structures we learned about in this course in my own programs over the years, but they were high level implementations of the various data structures which meant that I was not exposed to the complicated inner workings of the various containers. Since I now know the basics of data structures, I can use these concepts and implement them in an object-oriented approach in order to write code that is modular, clean, and easy to maintain. Starting with getting to know the kind of data you need to store and remembering the strengths of different data structures, I can always use this information to choose the best way to work with data no matter what problem I am trying to solve.
